README.md, before:

# Yummy Phoenix GraphQL

[![Build Status](https://gitlab.com/matthieusegret/yummy-phoenix-graphql/badges/master/build.svg)](https://gitlab.com/matthieusegret/yummy-phoenix-graphql/pipelines)

This application can be used as **starter kit** if you want to get started building an app with **Phoenix**, **React**, and **GraphQL**. This is a simple cooking recipe sharing application using ordinary features which can be found in most web applications.

## Technologies

### Frontend

- [TypeScript](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript) - A superset of JavaScript that compiles to clean JavaScript output.
- [React](https://facebook.github.io/react) - A JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It introduces many great concepts, such as, Virtual DOM, Data flow, etc.
- [Webpack 4](https://github.com/webpack/webpack) - A bundler for javascript and friends. Packs many modules into a few bundled assets.
- [Bulma](https://bulma.io) - Bulma is a modern CSS framework based on Flexbox
- [Apollo 2](http://dev.apollodata.com) - A flexible, fully-featured GraphQL client for every platform.
- [React Final Form](https://github.com/erikras/react-final-form) - High performance subscription-based form state management for React.

### Backend

- Elixir 1.6
- Phoenix 1.3
- Erlang 20.3
- [Absinthe](https://github.com/absinthe-graphql/absinthe) - The [GraphQL](http://graphql.org) toolkit for Elixir.
- [Graphiql](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) - Graphiql is an in-browser IDE for exploring GraphQL.
- [Arc](https://github.com/stavro/arc) - Flexible file upload and attachment library for Elixir.
- [ExAws](https://github.com/CargoSense/ex_aws) - A flexible, easy to use set of clients AWS APIs for Elixir. Use to store attachments in Amazon S3.
- PostgreSQL for database.

## Features

- CRUD (create / read / update / delete) on recipes
- Creating comments on recipe page
- Pagination on recipes listing
- Searching on recipes
- Authentication with token
- Creating user account
- Update user profile and changing password
- Confirm user account with a code sends by email
- Display comments and recipes in real-time
- Application ready for production

## GraphQL Using

- Queries et mutations
- FetchMore for pagination
- Using `apollo-cache-inmemory`
- Apollo Link (dedup, onError, auth)
- Subscription
- [Managing local state](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-link-state) with Apollo Link
- Optimistic UI
- [Static GraphQL queries](https://dev-blog.apollodata.com/5-benefits-of-static-graphql-queries-b7fa90b0b69a)
- Validation management and integration with Final Form
- Authentication and authorizations
- Protect queries and mutations on GraphQL API
- Batching of SQL queries backend side

## Prerequisites

- Erlang 20 ([Installing Erlang](https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf)
- Elixir 1.6 ([Installing Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/install.html))
- Phoenix 1.3 ([Installing Phoenix](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/installation.html))
- Node 9.2 ([Installing Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager))
- ImageMagick 7
- PostgreSQL
- _Ruby only for integration tests with FakeS3_

## Getting Started

- Checkout the yummy git tree from Github

          $ git clone https://github.com/MatthieuSegret/yummy-phoenix-graphql.git
          $ cd yummy-phoenix-graphql
          yummy-phoenix-graphql$

- Install dependencies :

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix deps.get

- Create and migrate your database :

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix ecto.create && mix ecto.migrate

- Load sample records:

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix run priv/repo/seeds.exs

- Start Phoenix endpoint

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix phx.server

- Run npm to install javascript package in other terminal:

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ cd client
          yummy-phoenix-graphql/client$ npm install

- Start client in development mode. You should be able to go to `http://localhost:3000` :

            yummy-phoenix-graphql/client$ npm start

## Testing

Integration tests with [Wallaby](https://github.com/keathley/wallaby) and ChromeDriver. Instructions:

1.  Install **[ChromeDriver](http://chromedriver.chromium.org)**
2.  Install **FakeS3** with `gem install fakes3`. Fake S3 simulate Amazon S3. It minimize runtime dependencies and be more of a development tool to test S3 calls.
3.  Run **FakeS3** in a new terminal window with `fakes3 -r $HOME/.s3bucket -p 4567`
4.  Build frontend with `npm run build`
5.  Start frontend test server `npm run test.server`
6.  Run tests with `mix test`

## Production on Kubernetes

This example explains how to deploy the application on a local **[Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io)** with minikube. Instructions:

### Installing Minikube

1.  Install **[Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube)**
2.  Start Minikube with `minikube start`

### Building and pushing docker images to private registry

1.  Install **[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install)**
2.  Create account on docker registry. For example **[Gitlab](https://gitlab.com)** or **[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com)**
3.  Login to docker registry `docker login <registry-name>`
4.  Build frontend image : `docker build -t <registry-name>/frontend:latest -f dockerfiles/frontend.dockerfile .`
5.  Build api backend image : `docker build -t <registry-name>/api:latest -f dockerfiles/api.dockerfile .`
6.  Push images to registry : `docker push <registry-name>/frontend:latest && docker push <registry-name>/api:latest`

### Configuring Kubernetes

1.  Edit `frontend-deploy.yaml` to use your own regirstry `image: <registry-name>/frontend:latest`
2.  Set environment variables :

```
export REGISTRY_SERVER=<registry-server>
export REGISTRY_USERNAME=<registry-username>
export REGISTRY_PASSWORD=<registry-password>
export REGISTRY_EMAIL=<registry-email>
export FRONTEND_IMAGE=<frontend-image>
```

3.  Create Kubernetes cluster on Minikube with `chmod 755 kubernetes/create-cluster.sh && ./kubernetes/create-cluster.sh`

## Next step

- [ ] Deploy application to Google Kubernetes Engine
- [ ] Migrate frontend from TypeScript to ReasonML

## Screens

#### Listing recipes

<img alt="Listing recipes" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/listing-recipes.png" width="500">

#### Editing recipe

<img alt="Editing recipe" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/editing-recipe.png" width="500">

#### Recipe page

<img alt="Recipe page" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/recipe-page.png" width="500">

#### Account confirmation

<img alt="Account confirmation" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/confirmation.png" width="500">

## License

MIT © [Matthieu Segret](http://matthieusegret.com)

Commit message:

Deploying the application on a local Kubernetes cluster with minikube

README.md, after:

# Yummy Phoenix GraphQL

[![Build Status](https://gitlab.com/matthieusegret/yummy-phoenix-graphql/badges/master/build.svg)](https://gitlab.com/matthieusegret/yummy-phoenix-graphql/pipelines)

This application can be used as **starter kit** if you want to get started building an app with **Phoenix**, **React**, and **GraphQL**. This is a simple cooking recipe sharing application using ordinary features which can be found in most web applications.

## Technologies

### Frontend

- [TypeScript](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript) - A superset of JavaScript that compiles to clean JavaScript output.
- [React](https://facebook.github.io/react) - A JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It introduces many great concepts, such as, Virtual DOM, Data flow, etc.
- [Webpack 4](https://github.com/webpack/webpack) - A bundler for javascript and friends. Packs many modules into a few bundled assets.
- [Bulma](https://bulma.io) - Bulma is a modern CSS framework based on Flexbox
- [Apollo 2](http://dev.apollodata.com) - A flexible, fully-featured GraphQL client for every platform.
- [React Final Form](https://github.com/erikras/react-final-form) - High performance subscription-based form state management for React.

### Backend

- Elixir 1.6
- Phoenix 1.3
- Erlang 20.3
- [Absinthe](https://github.com/absinthe-graphql/absinthe) - The [GraphQL](http://graphql.org) toolkit for Elixir.
- [Graphiql](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) - Graphiql is an in-browser IDE for exploring GraphQL.
- [Arc](https://github.com/stavro/arc) - Flexible file upload and attachment library for Elixir.
- [ExAws](https://github.com/CargoSense/ex_aws) - A flexible, easy to use set of clients AWS APIs for Elixir. Use to store attachments in Amazon S3.
- PostgreSQL for database.

## Features

- CRUD (create / read / update / delete) on recipes
- Creating comments on recipe page
- Pagination on recipes listing
- Searching on recipes
- Authentication with token
- Creating user account
- Update user profile and changing password
- Confirm user account with a code sends by email
- Display comments and recipes in real-time
- Application ready for production

## GraphQL Using

- Queries et mutations
- FetchMore for pagination
- Using `apollo-cache-inmemory`
- Apollo Link (dedup, onError, auth)
- Subscription
- [Managing local state](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-link-state) with Apollo Link
- Optimistic UI
- [Static GraphQL queries](https://dev-blog.apollodata.com/5-benefits-of-static-graphql-queries-b7fa90b0b69a)
- Validation management and integration with Final Form
- Authentication and authorizations
- Protect queries and mutations on GraphQL API
- Batching of SQL queries backend side

## Prerequisites

- Erlang 20 ([Installing Erlang](https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf)
- Elixir 1.6 ([Installing Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/install.html))
- Phoenix 1.3 ([Installing Phoenix](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/installation.html))
- Node 9.2 ([Installing Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager))
- ImageMagick 7
- PostgreSQL
- _Ruby only for integration tests with FakeS3_

## Getting Started

- Checkout the yummy git tree from Github

          $ git clone https://github.com/MatthieuSegret/yummy-phoenix-graphql.git
          $ cd yummy-phoenix-graphql
          yummy-phoenix-graphql$

- Install dependencies :

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix deps.get

- Create and migrate your database :

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix ecto.create && mix ecto.migrate

- Load sample records:

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix run priv/repo/seeds.exs

- Start Phoenix endpoint

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ mix phx.server

- Run npm to install javascript package in other terminal:

          yummy-phoenix-graphql$ cd client
          yummy-phoenix-graphql/client$ npm install

- Start client in development mode. You should be able to go to `http://localhost:3000` :

            yummy-phoenix-graphql/client$ npm start

## Testing

Integration tests with [Wallaby](https://github.com/keathley/wallaby) and ChromeDriver. Instructions:

1.  Install **[ChromeDriver](http://chromedriver.chromium.org)**
2.  Install **FakeS3** with `gem install fakes3`. Fake S3 simulate Amazon S3. It minimize runtime dependencies and be more of a development tool to test S3 calls.
3.  Run **FakeS3** in a new terminal window with `fakes3 -r $HOME/.s3bucket -p 4567`
4.  Build frontend with `API_HOST=localhost:4000 npm run build`
5.  Start frontend test server `npm run test.server`
6.  Run tests with `mix test`

## Production with Kubernetes

This example explains how to deploy the application on a local **[Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io)** with minikube. Instructions:

### Installing Minikube

1.  Install **[Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube)**
2.  Start Minikube with `minikube start`

### Building and pushing docker images to private registry

1.  Install **[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install)**
2.  Create account on docker registry. For example **[Gitlab](https://gitlab.com)** or **[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com)**
3.  Login to docker registry `docker login <registry-name>`
4.  Build frontend image : `docker build -t <registry-name>/frontend:latest -f dockerfiles/frontend.dockerfile .`
5.  Build api backend image : `docker build -t <registry-name>/api:latest -f dockerfiles/api.dockerfile .`
6.  Push images to registry : `docker push <registry-name>/frontend:latest && docker push <registry-name>/api:latest`

### Configuring Kubernetes

1.  Edit `(frontend|api)-deploy.yaml` to use your own registry `image: <registry-name>/(frontend|api):latest`
2.  Set registry variables :

```
export REGISTRY_SERVER=<registry-server>
export REGISTRY_USERNAME=<registry-username>
export REGISTRY_PASSWORD=<registry-password>
export REGISTRY_EMAIL=<registry-email>
```

3.  Create account on **[Sendgrid](https://sendgrid.com)** to send emails
4.  Create account on **[AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/s3)** to upload images
5.  Set environement variables :

```
export SENDGRID_API_KEY=<your-sendgrid-api-key>
export S3_KEY=<your-s3-key>
export S3_SECRET=<your-s3-secret>
export S3_BUCKET=<your-s3-bucket>
```

6.  Create Kubernetes cluster on Minikube with `chmod +x kubernetes/create-local-cluster.sh && ./kubernetes/create-local-cluster.sh`
7.  Get minikube ip with `minikube ip` and you should be able to go to `http://<minikube-ip>:31000`

## Next step

- [ ] Deploy application to Google Kubernetes Engine
- [ ] Migrate frontend from TypeScript to ReasonML

## Screens

#### Listing recipes

<img alt="Listing recipes" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/listing-recipes.png" width="500">

#### Editing recipe

<img alt="Editing recipe" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/editing-recipe.png" width="500">

#### Recipe page

<img alt="Recipe page" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/recipe-page.png" width="500">

#### Account confirmation

<img alt="Account confirmation" src="http://documents.matthieusegret.com/confirmation.png" width="500">

## License

MIT © [Matthieu Segret](http://matthieusegret.com)
